High in this video we're going to look at using named topples as possible alternatives to dictionaries.
And let me show you what I mean.
Let's say that we have a data structure that we want to keep around in our program and we might write
it this way we might write it as a dictionary.
So I'm going to use this way of creating the dictionary.
It's not the most actually efficient way using the literal is better.
But in this case it's only getting run once.
So that's absolutely fine.
OK so here's what I have.
Basically I want to you know carry around the structure where I have keys and I have values associated
with those keys so that then later at some point I can say they did it.
Hey give me back key one tech and I get my value back and that's all I'm using it for.
Well in that case we're better off actually using a name.
Assuming of course that we don't want to modify the Keys throughout the program.
The second assumption also that we have to make here is that those key names are valid field names will
name topples.
They start with an underscore.
Or if they're not a string because you know our keys for us for dictionaries can be things other than
just strings they can be integers they can be you know other objects that can even be tuples as long
as the key is a hash table type and we'll discuss that later in the course.
But as long as hash table you can use that as a dictionary key here of course the caveat is that the
key names those key names have to be strings and they have to be valid named top of fields in order
to get an exact match in our name top.
So let's go ahead and do it.
So from collections import named toppled from collections import named table.
OK.
Now we can create a named couple this way we can say data that's called Data is data that's going to
be the class name and it's going to have key 1 2 and 3.
OK.
So we could certainly do it this way but I don't want to do it this way.
What I want to do and there's a reason for this we'll get to an later on in the video.
I don't want to create the keys by just specifying them.
If I was writing this from scratch in my code.
Sure that's exactly how I would do it.
But in this case I want to take an existing dictionary and I want to make that particular dictionary
with the same keys and the same values into a name.
So that's the goal of this exercise here.
So I don't want to grab the I don't want to write the names out of those fields by hand.
I actually want to grab the keys from the dictionary itself.
Fuck that's very simple.
We can just it Keys.
So the dark keys method of a dictionary returns and iterable which contains all the keys what all her
other keys in what how.
That's the thing with Python 3:6 an implementation the way that dictionaries were implement are implemented
in Python 3:6 the keyholder is precisely the order in which we actually created the dictionary and which
we inserted the keys.
So if we look at Keys here
we actually get them in that same order.
Q One key to these three.
Now what's interesting is that prior to 3:6 that was not necessarily the case in 3.6 it became an implementation
detail.
What I mean by that is that the particular way in which dictionaries were implemented in Python 3.6
meant that we have preservation of the key order.
However it was still not guaranteed and in fact in Python 3:6 it's not guaranteed.
However in December last year it came out that the older.
Now now that this thing works this way the older of dictionary keys will be guaranteed.
In other words if I put in keys one after the other.
When I read the keys back they'll come out in that particular order if I iterate the dictionary it will
come out in the same order as well.
So now actually starting in 3.7 it's officially guaranteed.
And in 3:6 it's an implementation guarantee essentially.
So as long as you're using 3:6 and above this would work just fine.
So now we have our data and we can look at the what I wanted to do here is look at the field.
And so we have key one key to key three.
Now again what's interesting because of the preservation of order is that if we look at data dict docket
values which is not extracting and containing all the values in the dictionary we get them in the same
order and that's going to be guaranteed as well.
So now in order to create an instance of this data named topple using the values over here and having
the values correspond to the right key or to the right field name and then topple.
All we have to do is this.
We just have to say D-1 equals.
We're going to create a new instance of the named table and we're going to take our data dictionary
doglegs.
Now we have to be careful.
Data does not take an iterable.
It requires arguments so we have to unpack this.
Essentially it Wrubel of values and so we use the stack to unpack lists and sequences and basically
General intervals and this will make into individual arguments.
So now we have D-1 correctly.
He wanted the 100 to 200 keys 300.
Now one little side note.
One kind of important caveat is that doing it this way walks.
And because of the guarantee of the keys and the values as long as you're creating your keys this way
and getting your values this way that will work.
It's OK but this is not a very robust mechanism let me remind you when we create a name topple we can
either pass in you know positional arguments but we can also pass in keyword arguments so we can say
key one equals we could say key three equals thoroughly and two equals 20.
OK so if we do that and we look at D2 then we have 10 1 to 2 key one 20:22 key to instruct 30 wounded
to keep three.
So when we create a name top all this is a much safer way of doing it when we're going to get our values
from the dictionary.
Why am I saying that.
Well suppose I had created my name a couple for some reason or other and I'll show you an actual legitimate
reason in a few minutes.
But let's say that instead of getting the keys from the dictionary I got them from somewhere else and
they're mixed up older.
So maybe I've got key three key two and key one sided reverse the order here.
OK.
So now I've got my data on name table that contains these keys and now they're in that order.
If I run this piece of code here.
OK if I say actually not this way if I take the code I wanted I wanted data DIC doc values which would
then have to unpack.
OK so now if I take my values from the dictionary this way.
Look what happened.
I have the wrong values in the wrong keys.
OK in the wrong field names.
That's what I'm saying.
This is not robust.
What we want to do instead is achieve something like this over here because that is going to put the
value into the correct key no matter what.
And there's is a very very simple way to do it.
We can say we can look at the Davidek itself.
And now we're going to unpack the dictionary.
We've seen how to do that before.
But we're going to unpack this dictionary.
So that's going to unpack it as keyword arguments.
So now if we do this and we look at D2 you can see that 300 went correctly in two key three 202 key
to 100 key one.
So this is a much safer alternative to doing this.
So now why am I mentioning all this because if you just have a dictionary in your code and you need
to transform it into a named topple then you just do it right.
You create a name top all with a field names you put in your values and then you delete this code and
now you left with a name topple of course you've got to live with the fact that now you have an immutable
data type.
Other things as well that you may think are missing.
For example if we have the data dictionary very often we have code like this where maybe the key name
is key to let's say and then later on you have data dict keep to k.
And it's not key to its key name.
There we go and retrieves correctly the value two hundred.
So you might be thinking well we don't have that in a name.
If I have a name top or I can you know say key name that doesn't work because the name is not an attribute
of that class.
That's not going to work.
But we can still do it.
We have to use the get attribute method that is built into Python so we can say get attributes from
D2 and get key name whatever that was correct so the name was key to and it retrieved 200 francs for
us.
So we got that as well.
The other thing that you would think might be missing is you also have a get method that's available
with dictionaries.
So I can say data underscore dict docs get and then the key name that I want.
Key one.
And then I can actually specify a default and maybe I'll say none.
So if you can find key one return None if you can find it return it.
So now if I say 10.
Well I just get none.
Now the get attribute method if I do this with that and I say give me key 10 while I get this.
The fact that my D2 does not have this attribute key 10 ranked and doesn't has key 1 2 and 3 but the
get attribute also supports a default.
So if we do that then it actually doesn't error.
It just returns the default.
None.
So we're not giving up a lot by changing from a dictionary to a named topple But we are getting advantages
where we don't have to write this anymore.
Frankly we don't have to say key one like that.
We don't have to do that.
We can just say d to dot.
We want much simpler much more expressive simpler to read.
Ok but why am I mentioning this in the first place and why did I go to the trouble of converting an
existing dictionary into a tuple using code instead of just writing it out the way I might do it.
Inside a program.
Well sometimes we have lists of dictionaries and we want to transform that list of dictionary into a
list of name topics.
So let's here are how we might do that.
And why do we want to do that.
Well I've seen cases where code sometimes will query a database and it returns a dictionary essentially
a list of dictionaries with dictionaries each row and the dictionary keys of the column names and the
dictionary values are the value inside that column for that particular row.
And then you have multiple of these rules.
So that list is basically homogeneous but it contains dictionaries.
Personally I prefer at that point having a named couple.
I would rather access fields in my list of rows.
Let's say my data rows you know some kind of dictionary and or some kind of list.
So I want to access let's say the false row and then I have to put in.
You know I want let's say the you know dates improved.
Maybe there's an import date somewhere in there.
So I get it that way.
I would much rather write it like this.
Plus I also like the fact that I will have the auto completion which will help me what I'm in my Python
editor to figure out which field I'm looking for.
I don't have to go in Remember the field names every time.
So a lot of it is you know when I'm coding it just makes life easier.
Also this way I know that my data is immutable and also know that now you know couples are more lightweight
than dictionaries.
The other thing too is it kind of depends how you're going to access the data.
Sometimes the dictionary is better and sometimes a couple is better.
Kind of depends on your use case but in this case that's what I want to do.
I want to convert a list of dictionaries to a list of named topples.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And let me copy paste an example.
So there's the example I copied from my notes and it's in the Jupiter note book that's available for
download.
So here what I've done is you know I kind of made these up again I kept to the key one key to and so
on.
But what I've done I've made it so that the dictionaries are not the same.
You'll notice that this first one has key one in key too and so is the second one but the third one
has an extra key three that the first two don't have.
And the last one only has key to it doesn't have key one key 3 and I still want to somehow generate
this as a list of named topples.
Well I'm not going to hand-code the name top all I need to do this using code.
I'm running my Python program.
It needs to be able to take this data list of dictionaries and convert it to a data list of named topples.
So the first thing I need to do is basically figure out what all the possible keys that are in use in
the data list for all the dictionaries in the de-list.
So let's start with that.
I'm going to create a set I'm going to use a set a set is basically a loop you can think of it as a
it's a it's a hash map.
So it's like a dictionary it's a valueless dictionary just contains keys.
What's important about sets one of the things that's important about set is that you can't have duplicate
verbs.
So the Whenever you add something to a set if the item is already there it doesn't add it it just ignores
it.
Right.
So we could do something like.
I'll show you what I mean we could say keys
add one.
So now let's look at what causes Ki's is.
A key is got and to then we have keys we have one in two.
But if I say keys top and one again I spell it right.
Add one again.
You'll notice that my keys is full just one and two.
So keys a set is very useful to basically keep putting things in that set but without having duplicates.
So that's exactly what I wanted to hear.
I want to use this set and I'm basically going to take all the keys and every single dictionary and
add them to the set and the set will take care of handling duplicate values and ignoring it or duplicate
adds essentially into the set.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We can do this very simply and I'll start with doing it this way.
So for D in data list so we're going to iterate through the de-list which is going to give us a dictionary
back.
I'm going to put that in D and I'm going to look for the the all the keys for key in d docked keys right.
Every dictionary has this keys and I'm going to say keys and keep k.
So to the set is over here.
Let me actually put it together with this code because it kind of belongs together.
And then finally I will just print the sets so print he's correct.
So let's run that and you can see it picks up correctly.
Keith Reekie two key one.
Now you'll notice what happened here.
The order of the keys is not exactly the order in which they were in the dictionaries.
OK.
So this is why I wanted to show you when we're going to extract values from these dictionaries.
They're not going to be in the same order as the key that we generated in the set.
OK.
So that's why we have to be careful about that.
There's actually a better way to generate the keys.
Let me show you we can use a set comprehension.
So we're going to create a set and the set is going to be.
Well we're going to iterate for key in on data foci for dictionary and call it dict underscore in the
data list.
OK.
And then within that for every dictionary we're going to say for key in dict underscore dark keys.
So this is going to be all loop.
And what are we going to extract.
We're going to extract just the key.
So now if we do this we have the same thing.
We have the keys.
So this is using our comprehension which is a better way than doing this.
It's a little cleaner and is also quite expressive and once you get used to comprehension expressions
you know nesting more than two.
I am not sure that I would actually do that.
I would probably you know go back to maybe a regular loop or figure some other way of doing it.
Once you start putting in too many nested loops in your comprehensions it becomes incomprehensible.
So it's not you know it's no longer comprehension.
And now we want to create all named topple.
So I'm going to call it a struct.
So that's going to be a name top hole that's going to contain.
That's going to be called struct and what is it going to contain.
It's going to contain the keys.
Now I don't like the fact that the keys are ordered this way.
I would like them to be alphabetically ordered.
So very simple.
I'm going to call solid on my keys.
So again if we do that again there's no guarantee that the keys are going to be in the same order as
what they are in the dictionary.
In this case it will be but it doesn't have to be the case.
Right.
It could be that this is key to and this is key one.
Matter of fact what's changed.
So this is key to which is two and key one which is one.
OK maybe the day Lewis came back this way for some reason.
So again I'm just pointing out you don't want to unpack the values of the dictionary when we create
the name toppled.
You want to unpack the dictionary itself so that we get key value arguments.
OK.
So now we have all structure.
Let's see what we have in it.
So if you look at the under field we have key one key two key three in the correct order.
You know alphabetical in this case.
So now what are we going to do.
Well I'm going to want to take each of those dictionaries and make a struct named topple out of.
But look at what's happening here.
We have three keys.
This dictionary only has two.
This one only has one.
Only this one has all three.
If we try and create a name topple and we only pass in two of the values what's going to happen it's
going to complain right it needs values for all three.
So what do we have to do.
Default values.
And we saw how to do that.
So let's go ahead and set up the defaults for these fields in the struct.
And what I want to do here is I want to set up the default just to be nung So it's everything's going
to have a none default so very easily.
We can do this.
We have to basically look at the dumdum new methods done the defaults properly and we have to rebind
it and we're going to rewind a what.
Well we're going to take none.
Right.
The top of none.
But we're going to extend that topple Assad a number of times how many times.
Well the length of struct dart feels highborn in many fields.
We have in the structure we're going to create a top of that length with containing You know each one
containing none.
Now we have our default free look at creating let's say an instance of a struct where we just pass in
key three equals.
Can we get key one is non-key to his.
Keith we use 10.
All right.
So so far so good.
We're getting we're almost there.
Now do we have to do.
Well we have to basically iterate through this list and convert each of those dictionaries into a name
toppled into that struct named top.
Again I'm going to do it using a regular loop initially.
So let's go ahead and call it our top all list K and top of list is going to be a big empty list and
then we're going to iterate.
So for dict underscore in data lists right.
Our Data List is this.
Over here let me copy and paste it so we have it right next to us.
OK.
So we're going to iterate through the dictionaries in that list and we'll go what are we going to do
with a dictionary.
We're going to unpack it into a structure and then we're going to add that structure to our table list.
And what by structure is that struct topple.
So we're going to say our top will underscore Lisp dot append which is going to append.
We're going to append a new instance of our name top up and we are going to take the dictionary but
we have to of course unpack the dictionary into keyword arguments and that should be it.
So now we can go ahead and print toppled list and let's see what we get.
As you can see we get our structure with key one is one key to two key three is none.
Because right so one went into one correctly and three was done that was the default.
And this one we had one was three two was four and Keithley was none.
The next one key one was five key two was six keys three with seven.
And the last one only key two was populated the other ones were none.
All right.
So that's great.
Let's go ahead and change this up.
And we're also going to write it as a function and it's going to be a very general function because
if you think one of the steps that we did to achieve converting the list of dictionaries into a list
of named topples Well we have to basically take the fields that were well we had to combine the keys
from the dictionary and from that generate the fields.
OK how did we do that.
Well we generated keys this way and then we went ahead and created the structure using this.
Now this works for any list of dictionaries.
OK.
Well it's generic enough it's just going to find all the possible keys and all the parts you know and
all the dictionaries and generate a set that contains all the possible keys.
Then it creates this structure and the structure.
Well we can just call it struct to be generic.
Then what do we do we need to set the defaults.
OK so now we set the defaults.
Again this is generic It doesn't require knowledge precise knowledge of what's inside de-list.
This is very generic.
And then how did we add and how do we convert the individual dictionaries into structures.
We use this approach here which again didn't require us to know anything about the particular structure
of the dictionaries or the particular structure of the name tuple that we created based off of those
dictionaries.
So everything was very generic.
So let's go ahead and write this as a generic function that can take a list of dictionaries and then
return a list of named tuples instead.
So let's go ahead and call it couple of phi.
I'm sure that's not a word let's just assume it is correct and it's going to take a list of dictionaries
and in fact it doesn't have to be a list.
It can be any sequence or any iterable really of dictionaries.
Not even a sequence.
What are we going to do.
Well the first thing we need to do is create Akis.
So we saw how to do that we say keep foredeck underscored in this case for keys for P Sorry n dict underscore
docked keys.
OK.
So this generates the keys for us.
The next thing we have to do is to create the named Popple.
So we're going to call it generically struct equals named top all struct.
And what are we going to pass in the Keys.
OK.
To specify the fields for that structure.
The next thing we have to do we shouldn't forget all the defaults.
So struct done the new Dondre defaults equals we're going to use none.
Times the length of the struct underscore fields.
So that's that one.
So far so good.
And I think the cell somehow changed to a.
Yeah that would go to marked down.
Let me turn it back to code so we can actually see the color coding.
All right so now we have the defaults what's the next thing we need to do.
Well we just need to go ahead and basically create a list I'm going to use a list under to create a
list that contains the name total equivalence of every item in the dictionary.
So we did it this way.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to change this and make that into a list comprehension.
So it's very very simple.
We just basically do what we have over here.
We're going to iterate through what what we're going to iterate for deith index k we're going to take
the dictionaries index and let me call it the underscore to keep it consistent with what I had over
here.
So what do we want to do for each dict.
Well we want to create a structure and we want to unpack the dict k that's a miscomprehension that's
what we return.
That will be the list.
OK we've done exactly what we did here but we use comprehension expression instead to do that much more
expressive.
OK so now we have a couple of five dicks which can take any dictionary you'll notice there is nothing
in here that requires us to know something about the contents of the list.
This device here can be any arbitrary list of dictionaries as long as what as long as the key names
are valid field names for name topples.
Now if it's not the case what should we do.
We should say rename equals true cake we say rename equals.
True at least we won't get an error but maybe that's not what we want.
Maybe we do want to have an error.
I don't know.
For some reason or other.
OK.
But I'll keep the rename equal stroke.
OK so now let's go ahead and let's say let's call it Tom.
So we call it let's call it top all list equals couple of phi dicts and let's pass of the day lisc.
Let's see if this works don't crash.
That's a good sign right.
And top of list is exactly what we expect.
It's a structure.
We've got the keys.
Right.
And now you'll notice one thing here the keys are not in the same order.
Keith Reekie want to.
I don't like that I want them to be ordered.
One thing that I forgot to do here is to say sorted on the keys.
OK.
So let's sort the keys alphabetically.
Depending on your use case you may or may not want to do that.
That's better.
I prefer this five key one key two key three.
All right.
So that's how we can essentially use named topples instead of dictionaries.
Firstly when you're using it in your code if you find yourself doing something like this OK and all
you're doing is just reading those keys you know again and again and again in your code and you don't
modify the dictionary and there's nothing else going on.
Use a name topple.
That's got to be more effective.
And then lastly to finish off on the name topples.
If you find yourself writing classes that basically only have you know and end in init and values and
that's it it's a name.
Unless you need the mutability.
But if you don't need the mutability and you're writing classes just to basically put together all your
attributes or all your all your properties together you probably should be using a name topple all that's
going to be more efficient than your class.
Plus you get a lot of extra stuff for free.
As we saw in the video.
All right.
That's it for tentacles.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.